
Outline of Mandarin-English Code-Switching Final Project

Title: 

Introduction
Why is the phenomenon of English-Mandarin code-switching interesting/important?
Attests to the ability of speakers to communicate in diverse languages rather than suggesting lack of competence through a need to supplement one language with another (Code-Switching in Chinese Malaysian Communities in the Film The Journey (2014) Modh et al)
Reveals the language in which native speakers have internalized concepts (Blogs by Young Macao People  )
May indicate which of the non-native words are more rapidly accessed or retrieved by bilingual people and consequently get embedded/inserted more frequently into mixed-language speech (A comparison of adjective and noun retrieval)
Two relevant groups of Mandarin-English bilingual people
			Native English speakers 
			Native Mandarin speakers
Countless factors contribute to retrieval time:
Syllable structure and syllable count
Do Mandarin speakers insert monosyllabic words more frequently into their mixed Mandarin-English?
Out of the multisyllabic English words scattered in English speech, what proportion of them conform with the Mandarin syllable template inventory?
Part of Speech (a.k.a., lexical category)
Research Question:Are some lexical categories of non-native, switched words more frequently recollected than others in spontaneous fluent mixed-language speech?
This project will concentrate on analyzing the part of speech distribution of the switched, non-native words.
Hypothesis: Non-native verbs are more frequently recalled in spontaneous, fluent mixed-language speech than non-native nouns because the retrieval time was shorter for non-native verbs than non-native nouns in the Picture Naming Experiment.

Background

Picture Naming Experiment
In the article titled “A Comparison of Noun and Verb Retrieval”, 21 Mandarin-English bilinguals native in only Mandarin and 21 English monolinguals recalled nouns in response to sketches of objects and recalled verbs in response to sketches of actions. 
Each noun or verb picture naming task was rated 0 for inaccurate and 1 for accurate, plus the retrieval time for each task was also logged.
Mandarin-English bilinguals scored higher for verbs in terms of retrieval rate but higher for nouns in terms of accuracy.
Retrieval rate is a greater indicator of whether a word gets uttered in spontaneous, fluent conversation, so again, we expect the non-native verb count to surpass the non-native noun count in a code-switching corpus.
